[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> So my name is
Doctor Sean Stephenson.
And when I was born, the
doctors in the delivery room
told my parents that I
wouldn't survive my first 24
hours of life.
And my inside joke is, now,
all those doctors are dead.
37 years later, I'm the
only doctor that remains.
And that goes over really
well everywhere but hospitals.
And I've lived an
incredible journey.
In this container, it's what
people first pay attention to.
But it's my goal that it
quickly disappears for them.
And I know I'm doing my job,
as a human, if I can get people
to see themselves in me and have
the wheelchair just evaporate.
So when people say, oh,
gosh, Sean, I don't even
see the wheelchair anymore.
I go, good.
I'm doing my job.
And I'm not ashamed of the way
I look or anything like that.
It's just I believe
that when you
have such identity around what
you can't do, you're miserable.
And my joke is a donut
doesn't go, I'm such a loser.
There's nothing in the center.
No, it's a donut.
There's not supposed to
be anything in the center.
And I'm a person
that doesn't consider
myself disabled, because
that's a term meaning not able.
And I've certainly lived a life
that has been more than able.
I think that this container has
been an interesting journey.
Because my whole
childhood, I was
riddled with physical
abuse, but not
by the hands of any other
human, but my genetics.
And I had loving--
still do-- parents,
an incredible sister,
and great neighbors, and family.
But my genetics
were quite abusive.
And I was put into
painful scenarios
nearly every few months of
my life, until I was 18.
Something as simple as
sneezing would break ribs.
Putting on a pair of pants too
quickly, I could snap a femur.
There are multiple times
that the physical pain
was nowhere near as abrasive
as the emotional trauma of what
it caused me to miss out on.
Vacations were planned,
and everything was ready.
And we were packed to go.
And as I was being wheeled
out the door by my parents,
I would cough too hard,
break a bunch of ribs,
and vacation was
canceled, because I needed
to stay at home, immobilized.
And so I feel like pain and
emotional upset from that pain
followed me my entire childhood.
And with that said, I
lived a glorious childhood.
And it all kind of
shifted in October,
when I was in fourth grade.
And there was a
special connection
that I had to Halloween.
Because in the US, when
you're a young boy or a girl,
and you're getting
ready for Halloween,
you're filled with excitement.
You want to show your
costume off to your friends.
You want to eat
way too much candy
and go on trick
or treating dates
with your friends and all this.
And then one morning, on
Halloween, I was in my costume.
And I'm out of my wheelchair,
and I'm on the floor.
And my mom's in the kitchen.
She's making my the lunches
and taking the backpacks
out to the car.
And I'm rolling around, and
I'm like, oh, I look so good.
And I can't wait to show this
costume off to my friends.
And as I'm rolling around,
I catch my left leg
on the corner of the door.
And I bent it back, and I
snapped it at the femur.
And if you've ever
broken a bone,
you know there's a
bit of a time delay
between hearing the sound of
the snap and feeling the pain.
And even though it's a
fraction of a second,
it feels like an eternity.
Because you visualize everything
you're going to miss out on.
You visualize all the nights
of excruciating twitches
that will wake you up
screaming and blood curdling
screams, because it feels
like you're being stabbed.
And all that comes
rushing into your brain
when you've been exposed
to that amount of pain.
So my mom, she comes
running in the room,
because I started screaming.
And I was screaming both in
pain and in emotional agony.
Because I thought, why do
I have to go through this?
What did I ever do
to deserve this?
I was one of the good kids.
I did my homework.
I was nice to my neighbors.
I was polite.
Why was I being
punished for being me?
And I was furious.
And my mom, she would normally
play this game with me
when I would break a bone to
try to transport my mind as far
away from the pain as possible.
She would say, sweetie,
what was your favorite part
about our last vacation?
Except that day, I didn't
want to play any games.
I was furious.
I didn't think it was fair.
And she could see
that anger in my eyes.
So my mom leaned back,
and she formulated,
I believe, a question that has
really set me up for everything
wonderful in my life.
It's why I do what I do
now and have ever since.
She looked in my eyes,
and she said, sweetie,
is this going to be a gift
or a burden in your life?
First of all, I
thought she was crazy.
You and I have had gifts, right?
They come on our birthday,
and we open them up
with joy and excitement.
But what happened next, I tell
my scientific, skeptic friends
I can't explain what
happened physically.
But it's what I
experienced emotionally.
It was like this warm wind
of wisdom filled the room,
and circled around my
body, and just calmed me.
And in fourth grade, such a
young, impressionable age,
I got clarity on my life.
I realized that I loved my
life amidst all that pain.
And maybe there was a
bigger, grander purpose
to why I was in this container.
Maybe the reason was to teach
the rest of the human race
how to love their lives
amidst their pain.
And it sent me on a journey.
And knowing the
purpose to your pain
doesn't make the
pain go away, but it
gives you fuel to keep pushing
forward and not want to quit,
not want to check out,
not want to numb yourself.
Stay in it, be mindful, and
look for the gifts in your life,
because we all have control
over what we make things mean.
Our interpretations are
our greatest freedom.
You can lock me in a prison.
You could break every
bone in my body,
but you can't take my ability
to choose what I make something
mean away from me.
And that's what
sets me free from,
unfortunately, the rest of the
human race, who I feel like
is in prison, mentally.
Because they think things are
being done to them, instead of
with and for them.
And in that young age of fourth
grade, I looked at my mom.
I said, I think I get it.
And that propelled me forward.
It's not that I never had
a bad day beyond that.
I certainly did.
I had multiple fractures
beyond that point, surgeries--
I was laughed at
when I would leave
my house by kids and people
that had never seen somebody
that looked like me.
I definitely went through
moments of being ostracized.
And it didn't make it easier.
It just made me
not want to quit.
And that's what I do now.
As a world thought
leader, I'm on this planet
to look human beings in the eye
and say, I know it's painful.
I wish it didn't
have to be painful.
You have a choice.
Are you going to see it
as a gift or a burden?
And when you hold that
space for a human being who
is floundering in pain,
and suffering, and agony--
you just hold,
lovingly, that space
for them, a certain percentage
of them will wake up.
Not everybody.
I personally believe
that, in this lifetime,
it's not for
everybody to get it.
I wish it was.
But there will be
some who won't get it.
And I live by a
Coast Guard motto.
The motto of the Coast Guard--
I don't know if it's true, but
I have heard it a few times.
And I love it-- it says,
when the Coast Guard comes
upon a shipwreck, and they
only have so much room
in the helicopter to save
the people that are drowning,
you know who they save?
The ones that swim towards them.
And not everybody
swims toward us.
A victim runs into
a burning building
screaming help me, help me.
And I've been doing
this for 22 years
as a professional speaker, 10
years as an online personality,
16 years as a therapist, and
it still gets me, emotionally.
Because there are those that,
no matter how hard I try,
they'll never get it.
Because they don't want it.
And when you spend
all your energy trying
to save those that
won't swim toward you,
you miss all of those that do.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
So I saw a Ted Talk, once.
I wish I could remember
the name of the speaker,
because I'd love
to give him credit.
But he said it best.
He said, what determines
the gravity of a planet?
It's the size of the planet.
And what human
beings do is, when
they start taking
on more obligations,
and responsibilities, and power,
and influence, and success,
their planet grows.
When the planet grows,
they get more gravity.
When they get more gravity,
it's harder to move.
It takes more muscle.
It takes more effort to do
what you used to do with ease.
And so what most
people do is, instead
of strengthening themselves
and saying I got this.
I'm going to keep going.
They go, what if I could
shrink my planet back down?
And so that's when
they self sabotage,
because they screw it up.
They get into that fight with
that person that they love,
or they cheat, or they screw
up that business thing.
It's all, oftentimes,
unconscious.
So the gravity is
decreased, because they
shrunk their planet.
And I've seen this in my own
life with my own choices.
There'll be times when
I'm like, gosh, why am I
screwing this up, continually?
And then I do the reflection
or I do the journaling,
and I realize, oh, because
the gravity was scary.
And I was more comfortable
with the certainty
of the smaller sized planet
than the larger planet.
And I've shrunk my planet,
and I've expanded my planet
multiple times in my life.
And I'm learning
to pay attention
to what I'm doing here
in my day to day choices.
And I am a slow learner.
People say, how many times do
you have to learn something?
And I go, until it sticks.
And one of my other
mentors, Evan Pagan,
said, when does a person
truly learn something?
The answer is when they've
changed their behavior.
Until a behavior is changed,
you haven't learned anything.
You can know to eat right.
You can know to exercise.
You can know to save money.
You can know to be kind to
people and be a good listener.
But until you actually
start doing those things,
you really haven't learned them.
And so I'm a man,
as I mature, and I'm
hoping that I'm maturing,
depending on the day.
Or if you ask my wife,
it may not be true.
But as I mature on
this planet, I'm
seeing that everyone
is a reflection of me.
And if there's somebody
or something outside of me
that I hate, that means I
got some more work to do.
It doesn't mean I have to
agree with every human being
or appreciate all human
beings' behaviors.
I don't.
But the moment I start
having hatred, or disdain,
or irritation, it's time to
go back to work on myself.
When people see me,
they think, oh, I
would love to have the peace,
and confidence, and happiness
of Sean Stephenson.
And that's just flattering
to hear to my ego.
But the truth of
the matter is they
don't see the work that
goes into being me.
And if I could just
brag for a second
about behind the scenes of
me, I have a consistent set
of rituals that I have to
enact, or my insecurities
eat me alive.
People don't know this about me.
But if you got to
know me closely,
you would see in my home
office and in my phone,
I have a series of 16 rituals.
And if I don't do four
of those rituals a day,
my insecurities
will eat me alive.
I'll doubt myself.
I will question my capability.
But if I do these self care
rituals, you and no army
can make me feel bad.
And these rituals are so simple,
because I found the insecurity.
It's one of the greatest
thieves of a human's value.
And a couple of years ago,
maybe about seven years ago,
one of my mentors sat me down.
And he said, why were you born?
He just kept asking
over and over.
Why were you born?
And I kept giving him
superficial answers just
to shut him up.
And he was like, no.
Why were you born?
And then finally,
I just got calm.
And I got clear.
I was born to rid the
world of insecurity.
He said he felt the hairs on
the back of his neck stand up.
And he said, yes.
You were.
Because if there is
anybody on this planet that
could convince the human race
they don't need to be insecure,
it's you.
And I believe the insecurities
are those moments when we
don't feel like we're enough--
not tall enough, smart enough,
rich enough, pretty enough,
handsome enough,
confident enough.
We feel like we're
lacking something.
And that feeling of
lack is dangerous,
because we'll go
out and do things
to try to prove that we're
enough that are often very
destructive and, eventually,
potentially addictive.
And as a human being that's here
to rid the world of insecurity,
I've done a lot of work
on looking into my own.
So I am the laboratory
for the human race.
I'm like, why am I
feeling this insecure?
And I'll go deep
inside, and I'll reverse
engineer what took place.
What did I just think about?
Where was I focused?
And I will reverse engineer
what caused the insecurity,
and how can I turn it around.
And I got two massive
insights about Insecurity
for the human race.
One is the cure that I'm
happy to share with you.
And the other insight that
I had is even more crazy.
And that is to cure
insecurity, you
have to realize it's
never going away.
And once you realize
it's never going away,
then that begs the
question, how do we cure it?
And the answer is
it's self care.
So when we take great
care of ourselves
through mind, body, spiritual
care, through health, wealth,
and relationship care,
through diet, exercise,
and conscious
absorption of knowledge
and contributing
back to others--
when you have that level
of self care in your life,
your insecurities don't
have any control over you.
They can't keep up
with you when you're
taking great care of yourself.
And so these self care
rituals, I respect them.
And anytime I'm in
a dark place, or I'm
questioning my own worth,
I know it's very simple.
I'm off my self
care ritual list.
All I've got to do is
get right back to it.
And I get angry
how simple it is,
and yet how many
times do I forget it.
And so that's one of the
reasons why I'm here--
is to let human beings
know that you are enough.
And if you're
questioning that, I just
know you're not taking good
enough care of yourself.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
I'll tell you, that statement--
you love it.
Your eyes got bright and
shiny when you said it.
But do you realize how
many people it upsets?
On YouTube, when I first made
that statement-- first of all,
that video--
>> Could you repeat
the statement?
>> Yeah.
So the statement you're quoting
is from a Ted Talk that I did,
TedX Talk, in a prison.
And I said never
believe a prediction
that doesn't empower you.
And so I think we had, at
this time in this video,
about a million and a
half views on that video.
And if you read the comments,
which I've stopped doing now
in my life-- just
for my own sanity--
there's a lot of people that
said this is delusional.
If you don't listen
to the predictions,
bad things can happen to you.
And if you notice closely,
I didn't say plug your ears.
I said that you have to listen
for the ones that empower you.
Because if someone tells you
you're not going to make it,
and you start to
believe that, what good
is that doing for you?
Realistic people
oftentimes die early.
Realistic people go broke.
Realistic people never take
any chances with their heart
and open up themselves
to romantic love.
I don't want to be realistic.
Realistic people listen
to every prediction
they're thrown at them.
And the reason why I'm
still on this planet
is because I determine what
labels I put on me, not you.
And I live and die by my
own choices, mentally.
And does that mean that somebody
couldn't pass away prematurely
because of a prediction?
Sure.
But wouldn't you
want them feeling
that every second moving
forward, there's hope
and that they're moving.
I'm a big believer, and this
may sound more delusional,
that having a dream is more
important than achieving
a dream.
Because achievement
is not what keeps
us inspired, because
it's behind us.
Hope is what keeps us inspired.
Heading toward
something is far more
powerful than having
something behind you.
So when someone
says to me, Sean, I
think you're delusional
for saying, never
listen to a prediction
that doesn't empower you.
I'm like, great,
then I'm delusional.
But I'm a hell of a lot
more happy than you.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Well, I find that
realistic people
are extremely
boring, predictable,
and oftentimes miserable.
And I think the goal is to be
an unrealistic human being.
And when you're
unrealistic, you can create
incredible possibilities.
Jeff Bezos, Elon Musk,
the late Steve Jobs,
the late Walt Disney, Mother
Teresa, Mahatma Gandhi,
Martin Luther King--
all these individuals are
incredibly unrealistic.
Martin Luther King was saying,
one day, we will drink out
of the same fountain.
And it will be no big deal.
That was unrealistic
at the time.
And so unrealistic
people chart the course
for the lemmings that
choose to be realistic.
And it's not that
they're lemmings
because they're stupid.
It's because they're scared.
When you're unrealistic,
you're scared, too.
But at least you have
something to live for.
There's more excitement.
My whole life, I have
been called inspirational.
And it used to make me sick.
Because I'm like, I
don't like that word.
Call me funny.
Call me smart.
Call me things that I feel
like I'm doing something over.
Why are you calling
me inspirational,
when I pushed it away?
I don't want to
be inspirational.
Until one day, I heard a quote.
And it changed everything
for me around that word.
It said, if we're not
inspired, why are we living?
When we're inspired,
we want to live.
And then I'm like, wow.
I'm giving people
something that makes
them want to continue living.
And then I was like, wow.
When someone says
you're inspirational,
I need to celebrate that.
And I need to embrace them,
and thank them, and be
humble and grounded, and
appreciative of that comment.
Because they're
saying, in one word,
a bigger concept,
which is I want
to live more because of you.
And it's not that my
ego needs to hear that,
but my soul knows that's
what we should all
be doing for each other.
Whenever I'm around
somebody that
is, whether it be a Tony
Robbins figure or any country's
gymnastics, and I'm
watching greatness unfold,
or seeing a beautiful, amazing
singer, painter, actor--
they make me want to live.
Their art, their sport,
their business, their talent
makes me want to live.
Because I'm like,
oh, that's what's
possible as a human being.
What more is inside of me?
So that's how I feel.
I feel like I'm on this journey
to be even more unrealistic
tomorrow than I was today.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
So fear is an
interpretation in the mind.
People come up to me after my
speeches, and they're like,
are you ever afraid on stage?
Because fear of public
speaking is supposedly
one of the greatest
fears on the planet.
And it's the profession
that I've chosen.
So one might say I have more
courage than a lion tamer
or somebody that
swims with sharks.
Because humans would rather die
sometimes than give a speech.
But that's because
I feel like they're
interpreting their body's
response in a way that's
not serving them.
Because I get that
rush of adrenaline.
My heart pounds.
My hands start sweating.
All the things that anybody
else might label those as fear,
I label them as excitement.
Now, that doesn't mean I
still don't have moments
where I'm like, oh, gosh.
I don't want to do this.
I'm scared.
But in that moment, I'm
interpreting it as scared.
And interpretation is the
greatest freedom that we have.
It's the greatest power that
we have in our existence.
And so I have to
just ask myself,
is the way I'm interpreting
this empowering me?
Because if it's not,
why am I doing it?
I've got to find a way
to empower myself if I
want to keep moving forward.
So I look at how can I
empower myself in this moment.
Well, I know I have
control over one thing--
my interpretations.
And the second thing
I have control over
is my response to
the interpretations.
You don't have control over
your spouse, the government,
the weather, but
you have control
over how you interpret
all of those things
and then how you respond.
So for me, fear is
not a word that I
use very much in my vocabulary.
Because I don't use
it much, it doesn't
have much power over me.
I wouldn't say I'm fearless,
because I certainly
have the biological, anatomical
response that everybody
else does.
It's just I quickly
reframe it in a way
that it kicks me in the
butt to keep moving.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Death-- I think
death is really cool.
Because if you lived
forever, I don't
know if you'd have as much
of an appreciation for life.
Now, there's some
scientists and futurists
that say we're going to figure
out how to live forever.
But I wonder what that's
going to do to our psyche.
What is it going to
do to a human being
if we figure out how to
hack that one element?
There's a reason
why genetics has,
I believe, a start
time and an end time--
so that newer generations
can show up, and newer
adaptations, and new revolution.
And it's only ego
that's afraid of death.
If you believe at all that
there's something greater
than your physical
existence, you
should be celebrating
the next adventure.
I've had the fortunate
and unfortunate pleasure
of smelling the grim
reaper's cologne four times--
coming close to death
four times in my life.
And nothing will
prepare you for it.
But it's the last secret.
It's that last, is
there a Santa Claus?
It's that last wish on a star.
It's that last story book
to the human existence.
Where do we go?
What did it matter to be here?
And in that, I bow to death.
Maybe it's just because
I've come so close to it
several times.
It's an experience
stripped away of fairness.
And I personally think fairness
is an illusion, anyway.
If you looked at
me, and you said,
it's not fair that you have that
body, Sean, and I have mine.
I'd say, wow.
That's quite an assumption
you just made there.
You're acting like
yours is better.
But there are things that my
body can do that yours can't.
I can roll into a
room, and everyone
is going to remember
me, potentially,
for the rest of their lives.
Is that a disadvantage
or an advantage?
It's all in how
you interpret it.
And I look at my container
and my experience in this body
as being filled with advantages.
And people call me
delusional because of that.
And again, that's OK.
Because I can also say
something to somebody,
whether it's up on
stage or one on one,
that hits them in
the gut harder,
because they know it's
coming from my container.
So it's not just lip service.
When somebody like Tony Robbins,
who I admire, said something,
it's easy to be like,
easy for you to say, Tony.
You're 6 foot 7, and chiseled,
and worth half a billion
dollars or whatever.
Easy for you to say.
But when Sean Stephenson
rolls in the room and says,
hey, I know it was painful.
I'm sorry you were hurt
when you were young,
but we got to move
on now, sweetie.
You need to stop blaming your
past, and you need to grow up.
And you need to be there for
the people that need you most.
You need to let
go of that story.
You need to start
loving yourself.
It's harder to
challenge, isn't it?
So that's another advantage.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
I say, you're right.
How's that working
for you, though?
I prefer the Aikido method
more than the other forms
that are abrasive.
I'm going to use
your energy with you.
So if you come at me and
say it's not possible,
or I can't do that,
I'd say, you're right.
But how's that working for you?
And I get them to do the math,
to carry the one, and go,
it's not.
And I say, do you think
that, by chance, there
could be another way
of looking at this?
Do you think, by chance,
somebody else that
might have had a similar
situation changed
just a few little things
that you could change and had
a monumental shift
in their life?
The way I try to
handle people that
are coming at me
with their excuses
is not to fight their excuses.
They've spent most
of their lives
proving their excuses right.
And human beings
are right machines.
So I always say,
just be careful what
you want to be right about.
I want to be right about that
the world is a beautiful place.
I'm safe, healthy, and well.
I want to be right about that
money flows effortless to me.
I want to be right that amazing
people want to get to know me,
and I am blessed to be
a part of their lives.
I want to be right about
amazing, empowered statement.
Unfortunately, many
of the human race
would rather be right
about their limitations.
They fight for
their limitations.
No, you don't get it, Sean.
You weren't abused as a child.
You don't get it, Sean.
You didn't grow up on
my side of the tracks.
You don't get it, Sean.
You don't have my skin color.
You've never been
discriminated against because
of this reason or that reason.
And I say, you're right.
I'm not claiming to
be an expert on you.
And I'm not claiming that I
know what you're going through,
but you and I share
something in common.
They say, what?
I say, have you ever been happy?
Yeah.
Have you ever been sad?
Have you ever been angry?
Yeah.
Have you ever felt lonely?
I said, so what we share
in common is emotion.
And I haven't been
in your shoes,
but I've had your emotions.
And I want you to learn with
my help or somebody's help
on how do you control
your emotions,
as opposed to having your
emotions control you.
Because your life can
shift dramatically
in an empowered way if you learn
how to control your emotions
and influence your feelings.
And you can tell a person who
raises their hand and says,
I don't want to be
in pain anymore.
I'm willing to do
whatever it takes--
I usually don't engage
them in a dialect,
because it's just going
to waste both of our time.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
So easy leads to atrophy means
anything that's of great value
to you, you probably had
to put a lot of work into.
And it wasn't easy.
A really good
marriage isn't easy.
A successful
business isn't easy.
A body that's fit
and well isn't easy.
Great friendships that have
your back at all times--
that's not easy.
You have to put in effort.
You have to roll
up your sleeves.
You have to do the work.
But whatever isn't easy
usually is worth it.
And anything that's
easy leads to atrophy.
And atrophy leads
to premature death.
And it's easier to
live on substances
to try to manipulate
your brain chemistry.
It's easy to just eat the fried,
sugary, chocolaty, fatty foods.
It's easier to sleep in
and not go to the gym.
It's easier to watch
pornography than to have
a deep connection with
another human being that
leads to amazing intimacy.
Anything that's easy will
lead to atrophy in your life.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
I've had a lot of funny things.
>> I want the funniest
joke you can tell me.
>> I once was trapped
in an elevator.
You see, I travel
with an elevator stick
that is also a back scratcher.
And I pushed the button
to open up the doors,
and I was by myself.
And I wheeled in, and the
elevator doors closed.
And then I found my floor,
and I pressed the button.
And nothing happened.
So I'm like, that's weird.
So I just start stabbing
the button wildly,
and nothing happened.
So then I realized--
I do the math in my head--
oh, on the outside, the buttons
were pressure sensitive.
But on the inside,
they're heat sensitive.
And my elevator stick
wasn't hot enough.
So I got angry.
I'm like, I can't believe this.
Why are they trapping
people with disability.
So then I'm like, OK,
what would MacGeyver do?
And I'm like, if I could have
a tampon and a pack of chewing
gum, I could make a bomb.
So I just start breathing on it.
I was like [HEAVY BREATHING].
And I hit the button.
What do you think happened?
Nothing.
So then I stick it
under my armpit.
And I'm trying to heat
up using my armpit.
And then I hit the button.
Nothing.
So finally, I sit on
my elevator stick,
and I'm grinding
my elevator stick.
I'm like, who's your daddy?
And I hit the button,
and nothing happens.
And I have this
one line that helps
me get through all
the moments in my life
where I'm frustrated.
And that's the question,
what's funny about this?
And what I realized is that
there was a little security
camera in that elevator looking
at me grinding on this elevator
stick.
And I was just imagining all
the people in maintenance
just filming it,
putting it on YouTube,
thinking it's hilarious,
watching this little man
in a wheelchair doing nasty
things to his back scratcher.
And that just made me laugh.
So I've been trapped in
lots of stupid scenarios
like that with my container,
and you can either laugh or cry.
And multiple things
have happened to me,
but I'm always looking for
what's funny about this.
I pride myself on
a sense of humor.
My wife-- if she says that
another man's better looking
than me-- but she wouldn't.
But if she did, I wouldn't care.
But if she said another
guy was funnier than me,
oh, we'd have a problem.
This would really upset me.
And that's because
my ego has identified
with wanting to be funny.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
So let's be clear, I
want to give up a lot.
I just don't.
There's a difference.
I have at times, every
week, want to give up.
But I don't.
I learned from one of my
mentors that passed on,
Charlie Tremendous Jones.
He said, I'm not going to quit.
But let me want to quit.
And I want to quit, sometimes,
several times a day.
And it's the denial
of an emotion
that's far more dangerous
than the emotion itself.
And so when I let myself
want to quit, I want to quit.
And I'm like, OK,
but are you going to?
No.
And that's the difference.
It is I don't make myself feel
wrong and bad for the emotions
that I'm having.
My mom, this amazing
woman who asked me
if this was going to be a
gift or a burden-- she also
used to do this thing where
she would go to the kitchen
when I was feeling sorry
for myself, as a kid.
And she would pull
out an egg timer.
She said, sweetie, you want to
feel sorry for yourself today,
that's fine.
But today, you only
get 15 minutes.
And she would set an
egg timer for 15 minutes
and put it on the
desk next to me.
Egg timers traumatize me, now.
But other than that, it worked.
When you allow a human
being, whether it's
a child or an adult, to
feel sorry for themselves
in a controlled amount of
time, it kind of evaporates.
Because you realize it
doesn't get you anywhere.
But when you tell somebody no--
you can't be angry.
You can't be sad.
You can't be this.
You can't be that--
it bottles up.
And then it gets worse.
I go into schools sometimes
after school shootings,
and I listen to the kids
talk about the child who
snapped and did the shooting.
And I found that was a child
who was made wrong and bad
for having his feelings.
He needed to bottle them up.
It's not the expressive
child that has access to art,
and creativity, and voicing
through poetry, and music,
and video.
That's not the child that
shoots up the schools.
It's the one that
feels repressed.
It's the one that doesn't know
how to experience emotion.
It feels wrong and bad for
having them in the first place.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Which is another way of
suppressing the emotion--
muting the human being.
There is no drug.
And I do believe that
certain pharmaceuticals have
a place in our society.
But unfortunately, I found
that quite oftentimes,
they're used as
biological baby sitters.
We don't like who
you're being, so we're
going to put you in a
anatomical time out.
And it mutes you.
And I've been on some of
those, and I can tell you
that a pill never
makes a problem go away
in a certain area of your life.
If you have a problem with
your spouse, going on a pill
is not going to heal that
problem between the two of you.
If you have a problem in your
business, going on a pill
is not going to
heal that problem.
It might help balance the
chemistry if it's done right.
But for the most part, all
it does is it mutes you.
And when a human
being is muted, you
strip the color out of them.
You strip the life, and the
creativity, and the flow,
and the presence out them.
I've been called ADD.
I've been called a lot
of different things.
And I'm just like, that
doesn't empower me.
Sorry.
I don't align myself
with a limitation.
Instead, I'm like, no.
I can have incredible
attention into something
if it lights me up.
If it doesn't light me up, I'm
not going to give it attention.
And I'm not going to feel
bad about that, either.
I could talk about
the topics that we're
talking about for days and
be fully present with you.
But If you come at me
with schedules, and P&L's,
and all these different
numbers, oh my goodness.
I melt down, and I glaze over.
And I wish I didn't, but
it's what happens to me.
And in my company, we say Sean
is good at how many things,
Austin?
>> Three.
>> Yeah, I'm good
at three things.
And I used to feel bad
that I wasn't good at more.
But three things-- and
everybody in my company
knows if I do anything
outside of those three things,
they're going to end
up having to redo it.
And so I don't think myself
wrong and bad anymore.
I just say, I'm good
at three things.
So let's get anything off my
plate that's not those three.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Only every day.
So when you see me up on
a stage, giving a talk,
you're actually seeing
the product of a talk
that I've given dozens of times
prior in the shower that day,
the day before, the week before.
I spend a lot of time in
that beautiful daydream space
that we call visualization.
There's a great book called
"Mind Sculpting," that I love.
And it's rehearsal.
Because the mind can't
tell the difference
between imagination and reality.
Specifically, mine can't
tell the difference
between imagination and memory.
And so if you imagine
something over and over,
your brain goes,
oh, it's a memory.
It's a memory.
We know how to do this.
And they've proven
that if you actually
visualize going through
a practice of shooting
a basketball over and over,
your muscles will actually
start to believe that it's
doing those free throw shots.
And then when you go actually
to start shooting that ball,
the body reacts
differently than if you
didn't do the mental rehearsal.
And so when I get up on
stage, like I did today,
and you hear me say
what I have to say,
and you see me
connect with you, it's
because I closed my
eyes earlier that day,
and the day before, and every
day prior to the speech.
And I walked through, and
I looked into your eyes
in that visual rehearsal.
And I saw you smile.
And I watched you write
down notes that I'm sharing.
And I see you have this
shift of experience.
And I've convinced myself, long
before I get on that stage,
that not only did you
laugh, but you cried.
And you shift the way you think.
You rethought your life.
And so when I get
up on stage or I
do anything that I feel like
I can fly when I'm doing it--
those things in my top three
that I do in my business--
it's because I rehearse
them in my mind.
So when I finally get
into this scenario,
my mind goes, well,
we know how this ends.
It's beautiful.
Let's do this.
And that's what gives me
such great advantages.
Visualization is so
a part of my life
that I don't even think about
it, because I'm like, wait.
You're telling me other
human beings don't do this?
So for me, I have to
be almost reminded
that this is not common place
for the rest of the human race.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Wayne Dyer, one of the
greatest influences on my life,
taught me something
about twilight.
When I wake up--
I can't say every
day, but most days--
I slowly sit up.
And my wife likes
to keep sleeping.
She loves her sleep.
And I don't disturb Mindy.
I'm just in my own
space on the bed.
And I say, in my
mind, thank you.
Thank you.
And I'm excited for the day.
And I visualize something
that really gives me
a lot of energy and
motivation to tackle my day.
You know how people
say, how do you
get through your day
on those tough days?
What is your source
of inspiration?
And it's because
I have committed
my life to ridding this world
of insecurity in my lifetime.
And so when I get
up in the morning,
I'm not just getting up for me.
I'm not getting
up for my spouse.
I'm not just getting up
for my extended family,
and my friends,
and my customers.
I'm getting up for the world.
Is that cocky?
Maybe.
But can I back it?
Yeah.
You know the difference
between arrogance and cocky?
Cocky person can back it up.
And I backed up
time and time again
with how I've lived
my life, that I'm here
to rid the world of
insecurity by using myself
as the laboratory and
sharing my findings.
So when I wake up and my eyes
open, I'm like, let's go,
human race.
Let's take this on.
And so I'm connecting to
the planet when I wake up.
That's a lot of fuel.
And we've been blessed
to have videos go viral.
This year alone, we reached
about a quarter of a billion
people through videos online.
And I believe that's just the
end result of that morning
meditation of "I'm getting
up for the human race."
If anything, I'm kind of annoyed
that I've got six billion,
750 million that don't
know who I am and haven't
heard my message.
Because that means I got a
lot more work cut out for me.
Most people would
be like, oh, wow.
I'd be happy if a million
people knew who I am.
I'm like no.
We need to get the other 6.75.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Oh, it's easy.
It's working on yourself
and giving back to others.
There's two ways to feel good.
You can gratify yourself, which
is pleasure now, pay later.
And then there's fulfillment,
which is effort now,
pleasure later.
And whenever you are
growing your mind,
your body, your
spirit, or you're
giving back to your planet and
others, that's so fulfilling.
I've been a therapist
for 16 years,
and I've never had somebody
sit down on my couch
and say, Sean, every morning,
I do self care rituals.
I kiss my kids goodbye.
I then spend five hours in the
homeless shelter feeding them,
and I knit blankets for
children over in Africa.
And gosh, I just
want to kill myself.
I've never had it happen once.
And I'm not saying it doesn't
exist, but I've never seen it.
When a human being is growing
their mind, body, and spirit,
and they're giving back to the
planet and humanity at large,
it's so darn fulfilling.
You are refueled.
I know that when I have a
parent come up to me and say,
my child was killed
by a drunk driver.
And when I was in my
deepest, darkest despair
and wanted to kill
myself, your book
fell off the bookshelf
in my child's room,
when I was crying over
their items that they owned.
And I read your book,
and it gave me reason
to want to keep going.
The fulfillment from that--
that can never be touched by
the gratification of money, sex,
or anything external.
That is a calling
that you can't buy.
And that gets me out of bed.
And it's not always the most
extreme cases like that.
Sometimes, it's just
getting a message
from a complete stranger
on Facebook saying,
I was having a tough day.
And I watched your
silly dance party video,
and you turned it
all around for me.
Thank you.
I take very seriously
and I continue
to work on how do you absorb
millions of people's comments.
And the way you do it
is you realize they're
all voices in your head.
So when you get
mean comments, you
know you got some
more work to do.
It's a deep thought
that scares us.
So I have to two tattoos.
One of them, I share
with my wife, Mindy.
And it's that our love
for each other is infinite
and that we are so much greater
than our roles and titles.
And the other one is
C is greater than E.
And that means cause
is greater than effect.
Everything that happens,
I am a cause for,
because I got out of bed today.
And when something
happens, like this year,
I smashed into the
back of a semi truck
going 75 miles an hour.
I almost died.
And I was a cause for getting
in the vehicle that day.
And had my life come to an
end, it wasn't, oh, it's so sad
that Sean ran into that truck.
No, Sean got in
the car that day.
No matter what
happens to you, you
have to take
ownership for the fact
that you got out
of bed that day.
And when you live at
cause, you own the results
that are happening to you.
The biggest, whiny,
victim mentality lives
at effect, which is, why me?
What did I ever do
to deserve this?
And that mentality of it's not
my fault. It's somebody else,
and I have to blame so
I can be free of this.
But they're never free.
When you are blaming
anything outside of yourself,
you're never free.
You are a victim to
the external world.
And I just choose
not to be that.
Some things don't make
sense in the moment.
But I believe, over the
course of our lives,
we can see the greater picture.
And whenever something is
unfair or upsetting to me,
I just know, wait,
I'm too zoomed in.
I zoom out.
I'm going to see that this is
not happening to me but for me.
And if I'm wrong, I'd
rather live in that reality.
Because the opposite is
those realistic cynics
that are never happy.
I'm OK with people
being skeptics.
Skeptic means you
look into things.
You want to make
sure that it's valid.
Great.
Be skeptical.
Cynics look for how
it's not possible.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Love yourself.
It'll be the hardest
thing you'll ever
have to do, but the most freeing
thing when you get there.
It will take every
day to work on.
But everything else works
when you love yourself.
Your purpose comes into focus.
The right people show up.
Money eventually comes.
But if you don't
love yourself, then
if you achieve
everything else that you
want on your bucket list,
it's never going to be enough.
And as cheesy as it may
sound, loving yourself
is going to have the biggest
impact on the planet, too.
Because you'll be an example.
[MUSIC PLAYING]